okay so signals from space this is a
story of the beginnings of radio right
through to some of the most recent
attempts to detect little green men from
outer space
so a bit of fun as well plus some
serious science began with a pair of
radio transmission or wireless
transmission that we're all using all
the time these days back in the 1830s so
it's only well less than 200 years now
since their very first idea and the
first experiments were done involving
the railway and they tried using sending
electrical signals through the ground
through water and of course through
railway lines to send messages up and
down the railways and one of the ways
they were doing it was using a device
like is shown in the picture here is a
picture I took down it's one of the
museums down in Cornwall where they've
got some excellent sight their to do
with cable and wireless transmissions
and it generates a spark between the two
spheres on sticks that you see there and
that spark was then transmitted as a
noise down the wire or the railway line
but in de David Hughes in 1880 realized
he could do away with the actually
connecting it to the railway line and
the signal could still be heard having
apparently traveled through free air Oh
1864 so 30 years after the very first
diet is my came on with his famous set
of equations so shown on the right
they're very complicated and again these
equations more or less demand that waves
of any frequency could all travel
through free space it's a natural
property of the electric field there was
another 20 years before scientists
called Heinrich Hertz conclusively
showed that this actually worked
and that all of these different
electromagnetic waves of different
wavelengths included light in the middle
and just to give you a sense of scale of
the wavelengths here I like this little
graphic you can start at the left hand
side with radio waves which are about
the size of houses microwaves that we
cook with are obviously about the size
of your hand or a mug of coffee and this
is why you have the turntables inside
the microwave to move the object you're
trying to heat around because otherwise
with a standing wave inside there some
parts will be at the maximum and some
will be at the minimum of the wave so
you have to move the food around through
the pattern that is standing inside the
microwave then if we look at infrared
well that's shorter but still we're down
to the size of single-celled creatures
like amoeba visible light even shorter
detectable by our eyes starting with the
red at the longest wavelength end and
going through to the higher frequency
long shorter waves of blue and violet
there and that's round about the same
size as bacteria it's why you can only
just see bacteria with an optical
microscope because the waves are about
the same size as the thing you're trying
to see then we go on to ultraviolet even
shorter radiation even shorter
wavelengths it's about the same size as
mere molecules and again this is why we
can't can't see molecules or atoms
because they're smaller than the
wavelength that we're trying to use to
see them with our eyes but we have to
use much shorter wavelengths to be able
to get down to be able to spot them so
we go on from ultraviolet to x-rays and
those are about the size of atoms and
gamma rays which are about the size of
the atomic nucleus inside there
the atom they're so very tiny indeed but
of course if we're going to talk about
radio we have to talk about this and
Marconi and this was his first
commercial wireless telegraphy system
that he created and he was sending
messages all over the place including
across the Atlantic but only three years
after he first got this working he
decided to try to detect radio signals
coming from space well because of the
limitations of his equipment as you can
see it's still fairly primitive looking
he was unable to detect anything but
what he did discover was there was a
layer high up in the Earth's atmosphere
that allowed him to get better range
than you would have expected with his
radio communications what was happening
was that the radio waves were going up
from the transmitter bouncing back down
to earth and then perhaps rebounding up
into the sky and reflecting down again
twice or even more times and being
received by a receiver that would be
over the horizon with the earth in the
way in fact and this enabled him to
bounce signals all the way across from
Ireland over to the east coast of the
United States even but it led to the
belief that there was no way that you
were going to be able to do any form of
radio astronomy listening to signals
coming from outside space because this
ionosphere this layer that was
reflecting the radio waves back down if
that's opaque and impenetrable to the
radio waves then surely we wouldn't be
able to hear anything coming in from
above they turned out that's not
entirely right and it very much depends
on the wavelength of the radio waves
involved as to whether or not they can
get through and other factors
so the real father of radio astronomy
was this guy Karl Jansky and in fact we
give the eunice of power in radio
astronomy for the power of a received
signal is now measured in jet skis in
his honor and he's pictured here with
jet skis merry-go-round you can see it's
mounted on a circle of bricks with rail
on top and some wheels and then he's got
this giant box girder antenna sat on top
of it now obviously this is designed so
that it can rotate around and point in
different directions he was using it to
try to determine where various signals
that were interfering with his
communications systems were coming from
and he discovered that thunderstorms
were quite a powerful source of radio
waves and he could even use the antenna
here to track where the thunderstorms
were might work out what direction they
were coming from but he also found that
there was a hiss that he didn't
understand that seemed to be coming from
somewhere so he could never quite get
rid of here tracking this source of
interference and realized that it
increased and decreased on a daily basis
so he reasoned it's probably coming from
the Sun up above down through the
atmosphere from space so this was
probably the first genuine detection of
a signal from space noticed very when he
looked very carefully at when the peaks
were that the time was drifting and the
period of the signal was not 24 hours
but 23 hours and 56 minutes and that not
consistent with it being the Sun the Sun
would return to the same point in the
sky in 24 hours is consistent with the
behavior of the distant stars the stars
rotate around the air
of course it's the earth doing the
rotating really and get back to the same
point in 23 hours 56 minutes and a few
seconds actually and it then takes the
extra nearly four minutes of Earth
rotation to get the Sun back into the
same place in the sky because in that
one day the earth has moved one degree
around its orbit 360 degrees in a circle
365 and a bit days in a year so every
day we move one extra degree and so to
put the Sun back in the same place you
actually have to have the Earth's spin
on its axis by 361 degree so anyway the
signal he was able to figure that it was
coming from the constellation of
Sagittarius and as we know the direction
of the center of the Milky Way and so it
actually discovered was the radio source
right in the center of our galaxy which
is shown as a map of the whole sky
unwrapped with the plane of the Milky
Way across the middle there and very
bright radio sources right in the center
and of course we now realize that that
is an object called Sagittarius C star
when we look there there is a very dense
cluster of stars and gas and with an
x-ray telescope we can zoom right in on
them even at the center there and see a
very hot region of gas around a very
bright object there and that is believed
to be the accretion disk around the
supermassive black hole in the middle of
our galaxy so Jansky had discovered the
radio waves coming from this accretion
disk from the supermassive black hole
quite an incredible discovery for so
early on in the history of astronomy
it's intense electrons whirring around
in the magnetic field of the black hole
that caused all the radio waves to come
away there
a couple of very large radio dishes
Jodrell Bank in the UK this is the
refurbished version of itself so it's a
76 metre dish the first version was
built in 1945 using equipment that was
left over from radar work during the
Second World War and Sir Bernard Lovell
gathered it together and started
building a the Lowell of the Jodrell
Bank Observatory up there slightly
larger antenna at Green Bank here a
hundred meter diameter dish and the
receiver is up on that funny little arm
up at the side there it's a slightly
unusual shape there are local radio
dishes this is one of the dishes of the
half mile array near Cambridge at Lord's
bridge which is built on the site of the
Oxford Cambridge railway line where the
War Department had a our ammunition dump
and then sold the site off to the
University after the Second World War
and you notice that the dish is not
solid we can see the clouds through it
that's why I chose this particular
photograph because mesh structure to the
dish works just as well for catching the
radio waves it doesn't need to be a
completely solid surface and that's
because those those holes the holes in
the mesh are shorter and smaller than
the wavelength of the quite long wave
radio waves that we're interested in and
so the radio waves essentially see that
as a solid reflector and can't go
through it it also saves a lot of weight
by building them this way now here's
another picture of the half-mile dishes
all lined up mounted on their moveable
trolleys that use old railway line that
can be moved back and forth and over to
the right the 4c the fourth Cambridge
Radio Survey antennas there you can see
them all lined up those are just
parabolic one-dimensional parabolas all
connected together by the central
receiving antenna so that could be
tilted in the axis to lower the nearside
and raise the far side so you could look
at objects are either higher or lower in
the sky but you couldn't aim it east and
west you just had to wait for the earth
to turn for they foresee antenna to be
able to point at a particular target and
they used it literally to just do a
complete survey of the sky using the
tilting of all those antennas and the
rotation of the earth to map the whole
sky whereas the half mile dishes can be
pointed in any direction and can be
moved to change the separation between
them they're just behind the
edge to the left there is the remains of
the IPS array which looks like it's
where people have been growing hops it's
just a lot of sticks in a field to the
picture at the bottom right here shows
it and so there's lots of wires dangled
between the sticks and this acre of
antenna laid out flat again wasn't
Aimable at all you just had to hope that
the source you were interested in passed
over the top of it as the earth turned
but it was used back in the 60s and
their top left there we've got a picture
of jocelyn bell just Lynne Bell Burnell
as she is now and she was using this
under the guidance of Professor Antony
Hewish and they were interested in
studying the scintillation of radio
signals from the Sun but Jocelyn
discovered a repeating bleep coming from
the sky and the paper tape trace in the
middle of the screen there shows the
little tiny but regular blips coming in
from deep space and again they were able
to work out roughly where it was coming
from out in the constellation of
vulpecula now the pulses were so regular
that you could come back in several days
time and work out exactly how many
pulses you'd had because if you measured
it to five or six significant digits at
around one point three five eight to
nine to seven seconds and then the they
were absolutely regular and so she
dubbed it lgm1
little green men but obviously she
wasn't being entirely serious with that
she'd probably figured it was some
natural object and a pulsar and this is
the recording of another pulsar and I've
got the sound of it playing let me turn
that up for you and you hear the sound
of the pulsar I hope those blips in time
with the trace in the middle of this
Green they vary in brightness in
amplitude quite a lot but the period is
very regular and the image at the bottom
there is a been cleverly taken using a
stroboscope to make the flash from the
object visible any visible light in time
with the blips and so these objects are
what we now call pulsars a rotating
remnants of the core of an exploded
supernova and the crab pulsar in the
middle of the Crab Nebula their spins
around and we hear the radio pulses
coming in and they're much faster there
as well a much much higher frequency
that's the repeating pattern of the
rotation of about one solar mass 10
kilometers across spinning 30 times per
second think I think that's quite
incredible another one the vaillar
pulsar
get that pink and a very fast pattern to
it much closer together than the
original trace
and this one is spinning 174 times a
second and so it's making a musical
notes pause that people can't hear me
with the way that this thing encodes
sound so it's incredible that it's
making this entire object spin 174 times
a second
it's called mili second pulsar it's
really spun up to an incredible rate
well czars are not the only things that
generate sounds and that we can pick up
from space
Jupiter is quite an intense source of
radio waves coming from space these
enormous lobes the radio magnetic field
around the planet sound of here hey that
for you as well
[Music]
I think if you heard some of that coming
through your speakers and you weren't
expecting it you might immediately think
little green men yourself actually bill
song part so that brings us on to the
actual idea of searching for signals
from genuine extraterrestrial
civilizations extraterrestrial
technological civilizations to be
precise problem really is that in order
to try and detect signals from et we
need to eliminate all of the natural
causes the Sun Jupiter that you've just
heard black hole accretion disks like
jet ski discovered pulsars that Jocelyn
Bell found and of course the cosmic
microwave background radiation which
comes from all over the sky now some of
those come at particular frequencies and
so it can be avoided that way but it's a
lot of interference up there plus
there's the man-made Ference and anyway
there's a lot of space out there so
where should you point your antenna if
you're going to look for aliens they
could be anywhere across the galaxy
there's also a question of which
frequency to use we humans transmit
radio signals on all kinds of different
wavelengths from hundreds of meters down
to millimeters so there's only awful lot
of radio channels that you could search
that's the father of the idea of
searching for aliens is Frank Drake yeah
founded various segments he also
designed this message which was beamed
out into space deliberately by the
Arecibo radio dish in 1974 and I don't
know if you can immediately decode what
that says it was sent as a series of
radio pulses and they very cleverly made
it to where made the width and the
height both separate prime numbers of
pixels
so that the repeating pattern should
give away that it was supposed to be a
two-dimensional image now sadly they did
give this a string of pulses to the CIA
and the CIA weren't able to make
anything of it so maybe that was all a
bit too cryptic even then but what it's
supposed to show just if you and it is a
grid does the telescope at the bottom
here in purple the yellow the Sun and
the planets including Pluto in its end
with the third one raised up us that
we're the third Rock from the Sun which
is a human sir blue line here line here
and in the middle supposed to represent
the double helix of DNA on which we're
based in
at the top here mentions and some
calculations done in cryptic the top
here so they did be able account the
scale is defined here human is to figure
that out also done that's the golden
plaque that went out on the pioneer the
year to humans and intended issue scale
these two here are before hydrogen atom
giving one unit the distance between two
hydrogen molecule and here is indicating
the miss diagram the center here is us
his lines will point out in different
directions different pulsars and a
little dashes and along the line peer
are owed giving a number of the distance
from the Sun those pulsars and something
about the frequency of the pulsars
the idea being anyone who picked this up
would be able to figure that out and
work out by back triangulation where the
Sun in the solar system were so they
have weather solar system was when the
plots it off are moving so you'd have to
pick it up spent some time fairly soon
or the information will be out of date
same structure with sent on the Voyager
Golden Record hearing that the same
pulsar map and hydrogen molecules and
things on how to play the contents of
the disk now Drake
so proposed a radiofrequency that he
thought would be a very good place to
start
it's called the water hull because the
frequencies that are in use match those
of the natural frequencies of the H and
O H molecular fragments that go together
to make up the h2o water he figured that
other alien civilizations were faced
with the same problem would also
conclude that this would be an obvious
radio channel to start with we figured
they might gather at the waterhole to
use a metaphor and the frequency is 1420
megahertz and that's actually quite a
common frequency for things like the
SETI at home was all 1420 megahertz
channels also nice because we don't use
it for anything else on earth and so
it's a fairly quiet band and it comes
down through the atmosphere here easily
received knocked out by the atmosphere
yes that is the light coming to the
ground
hardly impeded higher frequencies is
some arrays and x-rays so we have to go
to suite those right any some and in the
infrared but most of the infrared then
blocked and there's a nice big hole in
the radio
the hole is right in the middle here so
here's a trace from the SETI at home
program I used to let my computers that
ran a spare computer time crunch away on
all of this
this was receiving data from the Arecibo
radio dish and then splitting it up and
trying to look for regular repeating
patterns within the forest of noise
sadly after many years and many millions
of data units I don't think they found
anything
the thing that
really explained was this and this is
the WoW signal 1977 the Ohio Big Ear
telescope suddenly picked up a very
short powerful burst of radio it lasted
72 seconds and came from the
constellation of Sagittarius
it's never been explained I just
explained this plot a little bit the
numbers here represent the frequently
though blankies thing a 1 would be a
weak thing who would be higher 3 would
be higher and so the larger intensity
would be so a 7 over here is quite
intense here on beyond 9 and started
using letters so it's gone synched equ
j53 very intense bursts and the the
operator who saw that wrote
Wow by it as shown in pen there because
it was such a powerful doors a way of
looking at it interpret a graph you can
see the signify sees 473 second a very
very smooth hot looked other
suspiciously like the sort of pulses we
use for our radio transmissions it looks
a little bit artificial it's not ragged
enough to be now there was a theory that
they were a pair of comets in that part
of the sky and maybe the water in the
Comets was giving off some sort of
signal at the water hole but they waited
for the comets come back and they came
back and nothing happened so that's
still unexplained as is this the Lorimer
burst duncan Lorimer in 2007 was using
the Parkes radio telescope dish that's
the dish that was in the film the dish
of all about the receiving of the radio
signals from the Apollo and relaying of
the TV pictures
film if you haven't seen it so Norma was
using this to observe this trace on the
right this black swooping slightly
curved line across the background noise
there and very high power very short
bursts
most unusual three years later this
series of 16 more pulses were reported
from the same Parkes radio dish and they
seem to be coming everyday and going
back to jet ski anything that's coming
every day at the same time maybe that's
connected with it being a source that
happens to be in the right spot in the
sky at the right time but importantly
for this particular series correlated
with lunchtime and it was the microwave
oven cooking the jacket potatoes next
door the seal on the door had failed and
so the microwaves were escaping and
interfering with the signal as the
kitchen opened every day so that ruled
out those 16 pulses but not the original
Lorimer pulse that what it was was the
first of the fast radio bursts that have
been detected all over the sky here's a
all-sky plot marking the positions of
these fast radio bursts and a lot of
them the black dots correlate with being
in our galaxy but the orange dots are
showing up scattered randomly all across
the sky so they're definitely coming
from deep space and very very powerful
because we're able to hear them from
here still not explained so let's
another way should we expect to hear
from ET and again Frank Drake proposed a
formula to work out the chances of
observing an alien technological
civilization in the form of this set of
numbers here that you have to multiply
together to get the number n on the left
this in 1961 let's have a look so so on
the Left we've got n the number of
civilizations in the Milky Way and he
said that would be equal to the number
of stars in the Milky Way times the
fraction of those stars that had
habitable planets times the fraction of
habitable planets that had life on them
times the fraction of life-bearing
planets where you actually got an
intelligent civilization and then
multiplied by the lifetime of a
civilization divided by the lifetime of
a typical star and he used that lifetime
calculation very much I think because it
was a product of the 1960s when the Cold
War was at its height a Cuban Missile
Crisis and it didn't look like
technological life on earth was going to
last very long and indeed in his initial
estimates he was putting numbers like 50
years in there for their Elsi parameter
and getting very very low numbers out of
the whole calculation but with sensible
estimates for everything he came out
with an estimate of 10,000 technological
civilizations in our galaxy today and I
think if you try running these numbers
yourself you probably come up with a
similar answer it's worth having based
on 10,000 civilizations scattered across
the galaxy this chap Enrico Fermi very
famous Italian scientist who worked on
the atomic bomb program he put the
question where is everybody and the
reason was he figured if interstellar
travel had to be slow but meaning
low the speed of light in the billions
of years that have been available for
civilizations to grow and then send not
necessarily crude but perhaps machine
unmanned probes all over the solar
system all over the galaxy there would
be time for them to spread out and cover
the entire galaxy with these probes and
we really ought to be seeing them you
are I don't know the ones I see are all
man-made
we haven't actually found anything and
so there really is a problem there
really is a paradox here and it's called
the Fermi paradox in his name says why
are we not seeing more evidence of life
if I seems to be as likely to be common
as occupations to death
first any the rule this out life took a
very long time on earth form complicated
degrees about four thousand million
years and the whole history of the last
life on earth is here on this one chart
we have slightly compressed times it is
popping right at the left-hand side
where the first had a solid surface for
anything to be alive on
and very shortly after at the oldest
Michaels it says on this three thousand
five hundred million years ago well
actually more recently they've pushed
that back to three thousand eight
hundred million years ago only two
hundred million years between this the
earth ceasing to be a molten ball of
lava and the first signs of life which
in an incredibly short period of time
very very long time before around five
hundred million years ago I'd here I'd
say this in linear time scale of
thousand million two thousand one
thousand five hundred the Cambrian
explosion took off and it's fella
yeah tend to carrying but four thousand
million years only a third of the age of
the universe though it seems to be quite
likely that if life had evolved
elsewhere on earlier generations of
stars it could easily have had four
thousand billion year head start on a
lot of planetary systems out there that
are at least twice as old as our own
they're also an awful lot of those stars
if you run that Drake Equation you need
to put four hundred be your starting
number but would contend that the center
of the galaxy is too dangerous there are
stars packed very closely together
there's very high chance that one of
your neighbors is going to get a bit
rowdy on you and blow up as a supernova
not to mention the fact that you've got
the central supermassive black hole in
there which if it starts feeding will
push out very intense radiation so I
think that central zone is a no-go area
likewise actually the outer rim of the
galaxy is probably too clean there's
probably been insufficient supernovae
out here
in the outer rim of the galaxy throwing
the resulting nuclear brew up of their
cores where they have converted the
simple elements hydrogen and helium into
all the more complicated ones carbon
oxygen the iron that's needed for our
blood all the other elements are all
made by supernova and if you haven't had
very many of those because the outer
limits are a little bit thin on material
don't form giant stars very well then
perhaps that's not a good place to think
about having planets let alone
complicated creatures so really there's
only that oh not in the middle there
which is like we get Galactic habitable
zone which I think we're likely to find
civilizations and it's no surprise that
we're roughly here of the
still leaves us being us
and slice those and figure out how many
have planets felt all of them Kepler
space telescope showed us every possible
star that it could possibly hope to
observed having a planet at least one so
the next parameter in the Drake Equation
has 100% how many of them are habitable
tricky but I think about 40% of the
stars certain the systems that we have
discovered have a planet that's
earth-like and therefore potentially
habitable and in the habitable zone of
its star not too hot in too close to
cold by being too far away so we can cut
that down to just forty billion
earth-like planets if we plug those in
has introduced things very much at all
yet has it
now the trickier questions how many of
them will evolve life Oh argue that
because life started quickly on earth it
didn't take much to get it going highly
probable spread so I say perhaps one in
four really I think it's like a hundred
percent let's be reasonable and say one
in four of the habitable planets end up
evolving life that knocks that number
neatly down from 40 billion to 10
billion now the really tricky one how
many of those 10 billion living planets
give rise to intelligent technological
civilizations I think it is very rare
indeed and is probably where we really
have to take a guess I go with mint
million and my if you ask for some
reasoning for that I'm gonna say there's
a million species of beetle on this
planet they're never going to build a
radio
only one of us so I'm gonna go with one
in a million
very neat knocked the number down to ten
thousand this is what Drake got when he
tried the calculations based on a
message oh we're still left with the
question where is everyone then we
haven't managed to rule them help but if
you distribute the 10,000 ETS across
that doughnut which is 50,000
light-years in diameter you could do the
little bit of mathematics and you work
out that the average spread between you
and the next nearest civilization is 433
lightyears space is big our radio
signals that we have been accidentally
and deliberately sending out from Earth
for the last hundred years have of
course traveled just 100 light-years and
so they've only got a quarter of the
distance that is likely to be needed to
reach the first of our near neighbors so
there's probably another 300 years to go
before they what signals might wash over
our neighbors and then they have to wait
another 400 years for them to send us an
answer on me it's just not plausible
really that we don't have heard or been
heard or had a reply but also our
signals were very weak and our earlier
ones and likely to be undetectable at
that distance I did a calculation here's
a picture of Jodie Foster from the the
film contact listening in for aliens if
we took our mo
powerful TV and radar transmitters they
put out about 5 million watts of power
because it goes in every direction and
so it diminishes as the square of the
distance and so I asked myself how much
power would be received using our best
radio telescope if we managed to park it
at Proxima Centuri 4.2 light-years away
the nearest star and unfortunately the
answer is that we would not hear it
because it would be need to be 20 times
more powerful for us to be able to
detect it even just on the next-door
star system and so to detect it 400 and
something light-years away it would need
to be a factor of 10,000 times 20 so
200,000 times more power would be needed
for us to get the Chinese are building
an even larger dish I think it's just
gone operational in fact it's a 500
meter dish one steerable antenna a
little bit at the top but that's nothing
because you have generations of
telescope coming online we've got the
Square Kilometre Array which is
absolutely enormous array of little
dishes all linked together to give us a
very very odd collecting area who were a
very wide zone to give very good
resolution the Allen array or by Bill
Gates his business partner Paul Allen in
Microsoft and that's out in California
and he's dedicated finding things
so something up with it since they did
just discover some radio signals coming
in from a nearby red dwarf star though
Ross 1 to 8 it's one of the nearby
little red dwarfs you can see it mark
here coming towards us gradually and
really closest 7,000 years time at six
light years by that a signal called the
weird signal so not the wail signal this
time but the weird signal and it's in
the box there there's a vague repeating
pattern in the yellowy green color that
is definitely different from the
background noise and this was discovered
in 2017 so not being explained yet was
it was their version of EastEnders
coming our way
who knows so conclusions on all of this
have we found anything that's definitely
artificial but did we expect to find
accidental transmissions coming our way
not because sir the aliens would have to
be being so profligate Li wasteful with
their power output if they were
broadcasting it's their equivalent of
television for us to pick it up this far
away however a deliberately beam signal
that doesn't spread out equally in all
directions and therefore suffer from
that inverse square law might be
something that either we could
deliberately beam to them or they would
deliberately beam to us but you've got
to ask yourself out of all the possible
star systems that you could choose why
would you point your beam at us you'd
have to have some idea that we were here
before deciding to send a beamed
transmission and of course if we
received one we would have to decide
what to send back and if we wanted to
send a reply at all and I can imagine
that courting huge arguments however do
I think are out there yes I do so the
question really is how can we find them
and we need to do is
their planet by methods that I described
in the other lecture that I did called
children of another Sun using various
methods to locate their planet their
atmosphere in its chemistry and look for
signs of chemistry being out of whack
being at non equilibrium is a sure sign
of life if
you could of course look for pollution
areas of course they breakthrough
initiative founded by Yuri Miller with
$100,000,000 bands sponsored by Stephen
Hawking and Freeman Dyson both sadly now
passed away and they were trying to
answer this question planning to have a
very large arrays of telescopes and scan
the nearest million stars and trying to
take the message and send the
breakthrough starshot probes out to
selected star systems now our current
Rockets can only really accelerate
things to about a hundred thousand miles
an hour the fastest so far is the New
Horizons probe that took ten years to
get to Pluto that's doing 36 thousand
miles an hour it would take many many
thousands of years to get to the stars
at those sorts of rate we need to get
there in 20 years but to do that we need
to go at 20 percent the speed of light
or 140 million miles an hour's a
thousand times faster and the way to do
it is with a sail and a laser beam
parked on the earth and fire the laser
at the back of the sail and accelerate
the little probes up towards the speed
of light and perhaps we could aim them
towards Ross 1 to 8 or Proxima Centuri
the idea would be that each of these
would carry a chip sized probe and a 4
meter sail and you would launch
thousands of them on the grounds that
not many of them would survive the
journey because they probably crash into
some small unknown space rock or
particle of grit and traveling at 1/8
the speed of light that will do you no
good at all the only problem I can see
is that it's a bit James Bond to try and
build the gigawatt laser on the ground
and hope that nobody decides to abuse it
for some other purpose so anyway
we look looking forward to hearing from
ET or finding the evidence of the
signature of life in the atmospheres of
exoplanets I'll and still time left for
this to happen in our lifetime hopefully
oh that's it thank you very much that
was all I have to say about signals from
space
you